Lightweight compression algorithms play an important role for in-memory data processing. Modern CPUs are equipped with SIMD instruction sets, allowing operations on multiple data at once. In recent times, some of the existing compression formats for 32- and 64-Bit integers have been adapted to vectorized data processing. To exploit new hardware capabilities, each compression format and algorithm should be adapted to different register widths. The implementation effort for different register widths and vector extensions can be dratsically reduced by the application of the TVLLib. Nevertheless the implementation effort for a large corpus of lightweight compression algorithms exceeds manual implementation approaches. 
Instead of considering each single algorithm as a complex data encoding procedure, we use the collate metamodel as a construction kit to specify lightweight compression as well as the corresponding decompresion algorithms. Each algorithm is implemented as a nested C++ template, such that compression as well a decompression code is generated at compile time ans exploits hardware capabilities.
At the moment our approach is restricted to non-vectorized code. Nevertheless, we specified and evaluated hundreds of algorithm models in correctness and processing times.
This approach of code generation for lightweight compression and decompression can be used for a simple integration of data formats suitable to hardware-tailored processing of your specific data with its inherent characteristics.
